README.md, before:

# UDS Event Type Induction

This package contains code for a factor graph-based clustering model for event structural categories over the Universal Decompositional Semantics corpus.

## Setup

This code was developed using Python 3.7.9 and should work with Python >= 3.7. To install all dependencies, run the `setup.py` script:

```python setup.py install```

Note that this requires a version of the [decomp](https://github.com/decompositional-semantics-initiative/decomp) package (0.2.0a1) that is still under development.

## Cluster initialization

Means and covariances are initialized per-property using a multiview mixture model. The script to determine this clustering is in `scripts/cluster_init.py` and may be run from the root project directory as follows:

```python -m scripts.cluster_init [TYPE_NAME] [MIN_COMPONENTS] [MAX_COMPONENTS]```

where `TYPE_NAME` is one of {`EVENT`, `PARTICIPANT`, `ROLE`, `RELATION`} and `MIN_COMPONENTS` and `MAX_COMPONENTS` are integers indicating the minimum and maximum number of clusters to try, respectively. Note that clustering on `RELATION` types is still under development and does not currently work.

## Training

Currently, scripts are provided only for training the clustering model. To run training, execute the following from the root package directory:

```python -m scripts.train [--parameters /path/to/parameters/file]```

If the --parameters argument is omitted, the script will use the provided parameters file (`scripts/train.json`).

Commit message:

Add results files, Conda environment YAML

README.md, after:

# UDS Event Type Induction

This package contains code for a factor graph-based clustering model for joint learning of event, entity, role, and event-event relation types over the Universal Decompositional Semantics (UDS) 2.0 corpus. If you use either the data or the code, we kindly ask that you cite the following paper:

> Gantt, William, Lelia Glass, and Aaron Steven White. 2021. [Decomposing and Recomposing Event Structure](https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.10387). arXiv:2103.10387 [cs.CL]

The GitHub repository for the Decomp Toolkit can be found [here](https://github.com/decompositional-semantics-initiative/decomp). More information about UDS, as well all UDS data is available at [decomp.io](http://decomp.io/).

## Setup

This code was developed using Python 3.7.9 and should work with Python >= 3.7, although we have not tested it with versions other than 3.7.9. If you are a Conda user, the easiest way to get started is by creating a new Conda environment using the provided `.yml` file:

```
conda env create --file event_type_induction.yml
conda activate event_type_induction
```

To install all dependencies, run the `setup.py` script:

```python setup.py install```

As this code relies heavily on the Decomp Toolkit (version 0.2.1), you will have to run through the installation and setup for that package first after running the `setup.py` script above (instructions [here](https://github.com/decompositional-semantics-initiative/decomp#installation)).

## Cluster initialization

Means and covariances are initialized per-property using a multiview mixture model. The script to determine this clustering is in `scripts/cluster_init.py` and may be run from the root project directory as follows:

```python -m scripts.cluster_init [TYPE_NAME] [MIN_COMPONENTS] [MAX_COMPONENTS]```

where `TYPE_NAME` is one of {`EVENT`, `PARTICIPANT`, `ROLE`, `RELATION`} and `MIN_COMPONENTS` and `MAX_COMPONENTS` are integers indicating the minimum and maximum number of clusters to try, respectively. Note that clustering on `RELATION` types is still under development and does not currently work.

## Training

To run training, execute the following from the root package directory:

```python -m scripts.train [--parameters /path/to/parameters/file]```

If the --parameters argument is omitted, the script will default to the provided parameters file (`scripts/train.json`). If using the default multiview mixture model checkpoints pointed to by that file, please be sure to unzip `results/checkpoints.zip` first.
